[Music]
welcome to the seven-minute marketing
podcast with your host Pam did nerve as
a leading marketing and sales enablement
strategist keynote speaker and author
camp created this podcast to share a
professional experience and insights and
help you achieve better alignment
between sales and marketing you enjoy
this podcast please share it with your
colleagues and leave a review on iTunes
now let's get started I was asked a
question the other day hey Pam
how do you know that you are a true
digital marketer that's a great question
the truth is there's no way to measure
your digital knowledge per se there's no
test that you can take and the breadth
and depth of your digital knowledge and
expertise is based on your personal
experience in addition digital
technology is changing everyday and
there's no baseline that you can gauge
against and to make it more complicated
digital knowledge can also be
categorized into different fields from
web designed search optimization space
social media by retargeting pay ads down
to personalization and data analytics no
one person can be an expert at all of it
personally I'd valuate a person's
digital knowledge based on an ability to
connect the dots so here is a great
example in the past if you wanted to
create print collateral you knew there
were specific layout templates that you
could use you will use that design
templates with some modifications and
feel it with compelling copy and a
purposeful visuals and the good old days
was so much simpler but today when you
create digital collateral your thinking
process needs to be different the design
and a copy of digital assets are heavily
depending on where it will be displayed
and how your audience will consume it
well we be viewed on a mobile device if
so your design should have minimal
visuals and the copy needs to be
structured to scroll
up and down easily the size of copy
should be dynamically scaled to the
phone factors of the device from mobile
phones tablets to desktop because you
don't know where this SS will be read as
the digital marketer you also needs to
be concerned with the flow of
information and overall user experience
there is not something that you need to
think about when you just create one
piece of a print collateral often I've
seen many brands just a blow PDF
collateral when the readers opened it on
their phones it shows the whole PDF or
just entire page on the tiny screen and
the readers needs to pinch with two
fingers to zoom in to see the text you
know that happened to me many times and
if you want to continue to read you need
to scroll left and right to see the
complete sentences it's very user
unfriendly and I'm not saying the PDF is
dead the PDF layout still works nicely
for print or desktop as a marketer we
just need to be cognizant that our
content will be consumed on multiple
devices and think through how the
content will come through does that make
sense
another important element for digital
marketers is testing especially QA and a
be testing for examples when I launch my
website I make sure that I view the
different pages on PCs Macs and the
various phones and tablets as well as
different browsers such as Chrome Safari
Opera Firefox and edge I've discovered
that some pages or images especially the
images and colors do not show up well on
some browsers then I need to figure out
how to fix that an analogy act eristic
sub digital is the ability to do a/b
testing of headlines calls to action
creatives or whatever you want to test
that's not something you can do easily
with print how do you know that you are
digital marketer on the digital side
everything is integrated and connected
for example if you design a website you
need to
think through the user journeys and SEO
in addition to using beautiful visuals
and layout when you create content you
need to think through how and where
users consume the content and what user
interface it should look like to create
a seamless customer experience if you do
even marketing you need to think through
how to use email or different tech tools
after event to continue to build that
relationships with your new leads
Digital is complexed because there are
many details bits and pieces you need to
pay attention to and most of the time
you won't know how everything is tied
together until you dive in and start
doing the work so the best way to be a
digital marketer is to work on imbalance
album marketing sales enablement and
even customer services and that's how I
learned to be a digital marketer the
learning never stops so how do you grow
your digital knowledge share your
thoughts and let's keep learning from
each other take care have a great day
if you enjoyed this podcast we share it
with your colleagues and we review on
iTunes
[Music]